---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

## Cathedral and the Bazaar Lessons
**"Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away."**
This lesson makes perfect sense to me, as most programming classes teach programming as "the simpler the better" — by reducing the complexity, runtime, length, etc. of your program, you make the code more legible and the program more efficient.

**"When your language is nowhere near Turing-complete, syntactic sugar can be your friend."**
I saw this lesson as pretty central to the concept of the "bazaar". In a busy, chaotic community with many individuals (who might have their own agendas or act as separate stakeholders), a lot rests on communication. In open source communities, how do you make sure someone else can build off your work, or pick up where you left off? Having syntactic sugar spread throughout your program, it seems to serve a purpose similar to good documentation.

**"Release early. Release often. And listen to your customers."**
This seems like the lesson that works the most against the "cathedral" method. Cathedral programmers, according to *Cathedral and the Bazaar*, tend to work in isolation and until completion. To release in waves, especially regularly, would be very against the idea of building a cathedral. I thought this was a particularly important lesson in getting a programmer into the mindset of openness. 

## Caprine Progress
This week, I documented all of the team's contributions (and activity around those contributions) on our page in the class Wiki. My team worked to solve a couple of small logic and styling problems to get our foot in the door. 

Our next step is to work more on identifying issues in our team issue log, where we track the list of issues that we could reasonably tackle. 
