---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---
## Progress
This week, my team worked on familiarizing ourself with [Caprine](https://sindresorhus.com/caprine/), the open-source project we want to work on. Some things we found:
* Caprine doesn't have an active community comparable to bigger open source projects (ie. freeCodeCamp, ReactJS, etc). Sindre Sorhus, the primary maintainer and creator of the project, is a full-time open source developer who is funded through [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/) and users of his [paid apps](https://sindresorhus.com). It would be helpful to potentially suggest opening a communication channel for the project and / or helping organize the documentation.
* Caprine is mostly a project for more advanced programmers. Most issues listed in their [issue tracker](https://github.com/sindresorhus/caprine/issues) are on the more challenging or time-consuming side. As students, we might not have the skills to tackle those issues. But, because we have dedicated time to the project, we can bring up and work on smaller issues in the app. UI and documentation issues would likely be easiest to tackle.
* Our first priority is to simply look through the repository, play around with the desktop app (to look for issues), and submit any issues we might find that aren't already listed in the issue tracker.

Personally, I:
* [Forked the repository](https://github.com/nyu-ossd-s19/caprine) to our class GitHub organization
* Organized a spreadsheet of running issues / tasks we can work on as a group (separated by issue type, expected difficulty, etc)
* [Submitted an issue report](https://github.com/sindresorhus/caprine/issues/832) for an issue we identified that wasn't already in the issue tracker.

## Wikipedia
I find Wikipedia quite useful in non-professional contexts. Especially with Google's [rich results](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/search-features), Wikipedia provides quick-and-simple topical information for novices. I expect most contributors to Wikipedia articles tend to either 
1. have some investment in the topic (ex. a fan of Brad Pitt is likely to contribute to his article),
2. are experts on a topic (ex. a biochemist is likely to contribute to the article on molecular genetics), or
3. are fact-checkers or language editors to some degree (ex. an English major is likely to fix small grammatical errors on a article).

I doubt I would ever become a regular contributor to Wikipedia, though I imagine if I find inconsistencies or inaccuracies in articles, I am likely to submit a change. Like most people, I'd most likely select articles to contribute to based on my investment in, expertise, or ability to fact-check / grammatically correct the content of a page. 

## Jimmy Wales: The Birth of Wikipedia
Jimmy Wales talks about the origins of Wikipedia. While his mission and goals for Wikipedia (and the Wikimedia Foundation at large) are certainly grandoise and ambitious, most of them have come to fruition to some degree or another. He brings up that sometimes journalists tell him about vandalizing Wikipedia and are impressed with how quickly the vandalism is fixed.

What I found most interesting was Wales' statement that Wikipedia's non-negotiable Neutral Point of View policy, stating that it should not take a stand on an issue itself, but to report on what reputable parties have said on the issue. He states that the firm neutrality policy ensures that people can work together across political, religious, and cultural backgrounds. Having members removed when they break this policy also upholds this culture of Neutral Point of View. As most tech companies are beginning to make seemingly politically-motivated decisions and actions, I wonder how well Wikipedia can preserve this level of neutrality and reporting. 

Wikipedia has certainly grown in size and scope since the talk. Wales talks about how most contributions are made by a very close-knit community, but it seems this has expanded significantly since his talk. The Wikimedia Foundation (WMF) now has more employees as well.
