---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

OPEN SOURCE (what do YOU think about when you hear the term "open source"? what are some advantages of open vs. closed source, what are some potential problems with open source, why did you decide to register for a class about open source software development?)
To me, open source means projects where the source code is released for users to change and use within the rules and constraints of a license that is created by the author. Open source can be advantageous because it has the power of many contributors and bugs can be easily identified. On the other hand, it can fall short in that (unlike closed source) it requires the implementation of a set of rules and community guidelines which can be hard to enforce. 


PROJECTS: list names of four open source projects that you regularly use or that influenced you in some way in the past; give brief descriptions for each, explain why you use it and what the alternatives might be (note, the projects do not have to be source code based)
1) VLC: VLC media player is a free media player that plays most media files with a variety of different playback options. I use it (as opposed to other media players like QuickTime) because it has the far more playback options (such as speeding up / slowing down). 
2) 7-Zip: 7-Zip can archive and un-archive filetypes such as compressed zip folders or torrents. I use it because it's free and one of the most popular file archivers. Alternatives include WinZip and WinRAR. 
3) Audacity: Audacity is an audio editor and recording software. I use it because it is free, allows for quick and simple audio editing, and has many export options. Alternatives include GarageBand and Ableton.
4) Wordpress: WordPress is a free website builder and content management software. I use it because it's the most code-friendly and has great plugin and template support. Alternatives include Squarespace and Weebly.


