---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

## Caprine Progress
This week we submitted a PR that was reviewed and ultimately needs a small tweak. I added a commit that fixed this small change, and it's currently being reviewed. We learned that the core maintainers are very active with PRs, reviews, and issues. This will definitely help moving forward with bigger issues.

Moving forward, our to-do list includes:
* proposing a third party chat / forum for the repository 
* tackling a couple larger issues after our PR is successfully merged

## Kevin Fleming
Kevin's presentation is quite company-specific. It's definitely interesting to see how an individual company implements open source and integrates "inner source" into its engineering organization. 

As expected, a large issue Bloomberg faces—and, as I expect, many tech companies with large user bases—is keeping their product consistently available a high level and a large scale. The fact that integrating open source tools in both infrastructure and applications has clear benefits is encouraging to see. I found

It seems like Bloomberg's invovement open source projects span a large range of subjects and uses, and it might be hard to manage this involvement at a high level. I'd be curious to see how open source tools are approved for internal use, since they have clear benefits. I also find it surprising that Bloomberg doesn't have any internally-started open source projects, which I'm sure would be possible at their scale and size. I'm interested to see if the engineering org ever proposes the creation of open-source tools themselves, as I've seen other tech companies have their own collection of open source projects created by engineers within the company. 
